---
title: "Analysis of New Orleans 311 Requests"
date: 2022-10-25
published: true
tags: [datavis, hvplot, holoviews]
excerpt: "A series of charts and maps exploring patterns in several years of 311 service requests."
hv-loader:
  hv-chart-1: ["charts/NO311_choro_by_type.html", "660"]
  hv-chart-2: ["charts/NO311_datashader.html", "450"]
  hv-chart-3: ["charts/NO311_heatmap.html", "300"]
  hv-chart-4: ["charts/NO311_heatmap_bytype.html", "400"]
  hv-chart-5: ["charts/NO311_radial.html", "650"]
  hv-chart-6: ["charts/NO311_line_chart.html", "550"]
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

Over the course of a year, residents of New Orleans make tens of thousands of calls to the city's 311 service hotline. There they can ask for help with all manner of non-emergency city services, ranging from dealing with abandoned cars to repairing roads and drainage to battling rodents and other pests. This series of charts takes a variety of approaches to explore and visualize a database of New Orleans 311 service call records. The original dataset goes back to 2012 and has data for over 600,000 individual calls, and can be found here: https://data.nola.gov/City-Administration/311-OPCD-Calls-2012-Present-/2jgv-pqrq

Our first chart shows how call volume varies by different days of the week and months of the year. Residents are clearly more likely to make 311 calls on weekdays as opposed to weekends, and calls are more common in summer months compared to other times of the year. 

(Note that some date-related charts only use post-2019 data as earlier data sometimes have incorrect times/dates).

<div id="hv-chart-3"></div>

The next chart visualizes the same data as a radial heatmap, where each cell represents one hour of one day of the year. In this chart we can still see that calls are more likely on weekdays compared to weekends, and that summmer months see higher call volumes (as seen in the 'white hot' parts in the middle of the chart). We can also see that while the city does receive some calls in overnight hours, they are still much more common during the day. 

Hover over the chart to view detailed data for the date and time of day represented in each cell. 

<div id="hv-chart-5"></div>

The next few charts all have dropdown menus to let you compare trends for different types of service requests. The chart below adds a dropdown menu to the first chart analyzing calls by month and day of the week.

For example, you can see that Trash/Recyling requests are far more common in summer months (keeping with the data's overall theme), while saftey and permitting requests are more spread out through the year.  

<div id="hv-chart-4"></div>

The chart below lets you visualize the month-to-month trends for different request types in a line chart format. 

<div id="hv-chart-6"></div>

The next two charts show New Orleans' 311 call data in map form.

This map shows the number of requests per square kilometer in each of the city's neighborhoods, with a dropdown to compare different request types. For example, taxi issues are most common in the Central Business District, while health-related questions are most common in the French Quarter. Other concerns related to trash and recycling or abandoned vehicles are common citywide.

Hover over a neighborhood to see its name and its prevalence of requests. 

<div id="hv-chart-1"></div>

The map below is shaded at a fine-grain level to show which request type is most common in each area. The colors represent the following:

* Blue: Trash/Recyling requests
* Green: Roads/drainage requests
* Red: Traffic signals and other street-related requests
* Purple: Property Maintenance
* Yellow: Other request types

<div id="hv-chart-2"></div>

The map makes clear that trash and recycling-related requests are most common in most parts of the city. That said, the French Quarter and Central Business Distirct neighborhoods see many requests related to roads and traffic signals. Meanwhile, the Lower Ninth Ward and some northeast parts of the city are more likely to have property maintenance-related requests. 
